Technical Specifications

    The channel impulse response: channel4ecen776.mat  Download This channel was measured at Edwards AFB from an aircraft just as it had gone airborne on Runway 22L.
    The channel is sampled at 16 samples/symbol.
    The modulation is BPSK.
    The pulse shape is the square-root raised-cosine pulse shape with 50 % excess bandwidth (or roll-off factor = 0.5).

Ungerboeck Observation Model

    Derive the Ungerboeck Observation Model. Use the 85% total energy criteria for pruning the downsampled auto-correlation function.
    MLSE Equalizer: Describe the MLSE equalizer and simulate the bit error rate (BER) performance of the MLSE equalizer with the Ungerboeck Observation Model.
    Zero-Forcing Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the zero-forcing equalizer with the Ungerboeck Observation Model.
    MMSE Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the MMSE equalizer with the Ungerboeck Observation Model.
    Decision-Feedback Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the decision-feedback equalizer with the Ungerboeck Observation Model.

Forney Observation Model

    Derive the Forney Observation Model from the Ungerboeck Observation Model above.
    MLSE Equalizer: Describe the MLSE equalizer and simulate the bit error rate (BER) performance of the MLSE equalizer with the Forney Observation Model.
    Zero-Forcing Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the zero-forcing equalizer with the Forney Observation Model.
    MMSE Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the MMSE equalizer with the Forney Observation Model.
    Decision-Feedback Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the decision-feedback equalizer with the Forney Observation Model.

Unnamed Observation Model

    Derive the Unnamed Observation Model. Use the 85% total energy criteria for pruning the downsampled composite channel.
    MLSE Equalizer: Describe the MLSE equalizer and simulate the bit error rate (BER) performance of the MLSE equalizer with the Unnamed Observation Model.
    Zero-Forcing Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the zero-forcing equalizer with the Unnamed Observation Model.
    MMSE Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the MMSE equalizer with the Unnamed Observation Model.
    Decision-Feedback Equalizer: Simulate the BER performance of the decision-feedback equalizer with the Unnamed Observation Model.

Report

Write a report summarizing your results. Compare and contrast the differences with both equalization techniques and the underlying model. 
One of the central questions we seek to answer is equalizer performance with the unnamed observation model: is the unnamed observation model an approach with good performance?